Ok ok I'm actually starting with a bit of a trick here recursion which we're going to talk about in
the next couple of videos isn't technically an algorithm.
It's more of a concept that we are going to use throughout this section of the Course to write some
really interesting algorithms when we get into sorting and searching through a binary search tree.
We're going to be using recursion a lot.
So I want to prepare you.
And obviously it's also a common topic in interviews.
Actually this is one of the most popular topics I would say when it comes to interview.
Now what is recursion really when you're searching for files on a computer.
For example if you're on your desktop and you want to find all your music files you're MP three files
on your computer you can do it by just looking at one folder you want to look at folders recursively
to find all your music.
Let me show you what I mean.
I have the projects here that we've used for one of my other courses and it's a back end API in Dakar.
Now life cloned this repository and I have it right here on my desktop.
Now if I wanted to search through all the files in this project I can simply type an LS to show me the
files.
But as you see in blue here we also have folders that inside of them also have files.
How can they also see the files in this folder.
Well I can do something called LS dash R and R.
Guess what stands for recursively.
If I do this and I press Enter look at that I get also the files inside of the folders.
You see that I have a control folder with javascript files I have postgresql folder with some doc files
some eschewed all files and within those I also have a another folder that has different files but because
I was able to list items recursively my computer went inside of each folder and printed out the files.
So what is recursion Well recursion is when you define something in terms of itself simply it's a function
that refers to itself inside of the function.
All right.
There's no way you got that right.
That's probably the most confusing definition ever again.
Let me show you an example if I open up the console here a recursive function is a function that refers
to itself.
So I can create a function called let's say inception
and this function is recursive.
If I refer to itself inside of it.
Let's try that again if I say inception here.
This is a recursive function because when this function runs it's going to call itself and run again.
The problem with recursion and why people find it so difficult is that it's an intimidating topic when
people start talking about math and theoretical applications.
Instead let's focus here on how recursion helps us solve problems.
Recursion is really good for tasks that have repeated subtasks to do that.
It kind of like when we looked at the folders inside of this project.
And the reason recursion is so important and the reason that I talk about it first in this section before
we dive into all the other algorithms is that this concept is going to be used in searching and sorting
algorithms that we're going to be talking about for example traversing a tree if you think about it
are simply same tasks that we do over and over again.
Remember when we build our own tree data structure our binary search tree.
And I gave you a little function at the end.
Called traverse that allowed us to print our tree so we can verify our answer.
If we look at this closer we see that we're using recursion here.
I have a traverse function that calls itself within you and this is something that we're going to demonstrate
a lot of when we talk about searching and sorting in the upcoming sections.
Recursion is everywhere.
When we do DOM traversal on a Web site if we go to elements here when we do this traversal on and h
him all document object model we're using recursion in javascript when we have a nested object so an
object inside of an object.
Well we use recursion but the key to getting recursion is to understand that it's not that complex.
As long as you practice it a little bit wants to get it and get over the initial hump then it becomes
second nature.
And my goal is by the end of these videos that you're going to get recursions.
So let's get started.
I'll see you in the next one.